# Contribution Guidelines

## Basic Rules

### Commit Granularity
A commit should be a wrapper for related changes. For example, fixing two different bugs should produce two separate commits. Small commits make it easier for other developers to understand the changes and roll them back if something went wrong.

### Commit Often
Committing often keeps your commits small and, helps you commit only related changes. Moreover, it allows you to share your code more frequently with others. That way it‘s easier for everyone to integrate changes regularly and avoid having merge conflicts. Having few large commits and sharing them rarely, in contrast, makes it hard to solve conflicts.

### Don't Commit Half-Done Work
You should only commit code when it‘s completed. This doesn‘t mean you have to complete a whole, large feature before committing. Quite the contrary: split the feature‘s implementation into logical chunks and remember to commit early and often. But don‘t commit just to have something in the repository before leaving the office at the end of the day. If you‘re tempted to commit just because you need a clean working copy (to check out a branch, pull in changes, etc.) consider using Git‘s «Stash» feature instead.

### Test Your Code Before You Commit
Resist the temptation to commit something that you «think» is completed. Test it thoroughly to make sure it really is completed and has no side effects (as far as one can tell).

### Write Good Commit Messages
Commit message should be a short summary of your changes. If your commit message has a body, it should provide detailed answers to the following questions: – What was the motivation for the change? – How does it differ from the previous implementation? Use the imperative, present tense to be consistent with generated messages from commands like git merge.

### Use Branches
Branches are the perfect tool to help you avoid mixing up different lines of development. You should use branches extensively in your development workflows: for new features, bug fixes, ideas...

## Formatting Rules
* Capitalized, short **(50 chars or less)** summary
* More detailed explanatory text, if necessary. The blank line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit the body entirely).
* **Always leave the second line blank.**
* Write your commit message in the imperative: **"Fix bug"** and not "Fixed bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

